WARNING: THIS CODE IS HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL AND HAS NOT BEEN PROVEN CORRECT
OR EVEN THOROUGHLY TESTED. DO NOT ASSUME THE RESULTS ARE ACCURATE OR RELIABLE.
DO NOT USE IN ANY SITUATION WHERE LIFE, SAFETY OR PROPERTY DEPEND ON THE OUTPUT.

This is free software. See COPYING for details.

This program is an example of how to make a working compass using an
ATtiny85 (such as on the Adafruit Trinket), an HMC5883L magnetometer
and an Adafruit 8x8 LED backpack for display.

==== Additional Information ====

More details can be found here:

   http://mythopoeic.org/magnetometer-vii-proto/

The above link leads to an article which is part of a larger series
about the development of this project. For a list of all the articles,
look here:

   http://mythopoeic.org/tech/avr-compass/

==== Compilation and Installation ====

To build, run "make" as a normal user.

To flash on an AVR Trinket with the default bootloader, press the
reset toggle on the Trinket and run "make program" while the status
LED is slowly flashing.

To get size profiling information showing how big the generated code
is for each function, run "make sizeprof".

==== Usage ====

Power-up:

The Adafruit Trinket always runs the bootloader at power-up. It takes a few
seconds for it to figure out that there is no USB device connected, during
which time the display will remain dark. Don't conclude your compass is
faulty if it doesn't light up the instant you apply power; this is normal
and expected, a consequence of the platform firmware. (The power-up delay
is about 3s if you're supplying power via the BAT pin on the Trinket. It
is about 12s if you're using an actual USB port -- not just a charger --
via the USB port on the Trinket.)

Calibration:

The compass requires a calibration process so it can know how to translate
magnetic field readings into compass directions.

When power is applied to a freshly-flashed device, or if you press the
button during normal operation, the calibration process will begin.

When calibration begins, the display shows the text "FACE NORTH". Turn
so you are facing North, then press the button again. The display will
change to show the text "TURN CW". Turn in a clockwise circle (i.e., to
the right). Speed is not critical, so long as you keep turning clockwise.

If calibration is successful, the calibration data will be saved to
non-volatile memory (so it will persist even if you turn off the power).
The display will show your current heading in words, for example:
"NORTH NORTH EAST".

If calibration fails, the display will flash "ERR" (and the calibration
data will not be saved). Press the button to start the calibration process
again.

The calibration process can be cancelled at any time when "TURN CW" is
showing; simply press the button. When calibration is cancelled, the
compass returns to using the previously-saved set of calibration data.
(Exception: If you cancel the very first calibration, there is no
previously-saved data. The display will flash "ERR" and you must start
a new calibration process.)

General Use:

During normal use, the display will show the current heading in words.

If the display shows "TILT" that means the magnetic field is coming from
a direction too far from the plane of rotation established during calibration.
If your vehicle is going up or down a very steep slope, you may see this
indication. It will go away on its own when you return to level ground.
Otherwise, check the mounting of your compass -- has it changed orientation?
Check for nearby sources of interference. Try re-calibrating.

If the display shows "INTF" that means that interference (a strong nearby
magnetic field that was not present during calibration) has been detected.
Check for and remove nearby sources of interference. Once the interference
has been resolved, it is probably a good idea to re-calibrate.

WARNING: Depending on the direction and strength of the interfering field,
the compass may not be able to distinguish the interference from the Earth's
magnetic field. In such cases, it will display a false reading rather than
the INTF indication.

If the strength and direction of the magnetic field are both weird, then
you may see both "TILT" and "INTF" displayed. Resolution and caveats apply
as noted above for "INTF".

If the display shows a steady "ERR" indication, that means the magnetic field
sensor is not responding as expected. This means there is a problem with
the compass hardware. (Do not confuse this with a flashing "ERR" indication,
which appears if a calibration attempt fails.)

Top Row Indicators: (FIXME: this feature is not yet implemented!)

The top row of lamps on the display are meant as a visual indication of
fine variations in heading. If you see a symbol like <> in the top center,
that means your heading is exactly that shown in words below (to within
the limits of precision of the compass).

If you see a symbol like > to the right of center, that means the heading
shown in words is to the right of your actual heading. The further from the
center the > appears, the further you are from the text heading.

Likewise, a < symbol to the left of center means the text heading is left
of your actual heading.

Lamp Check:

When you press the button to begin calibration, all lamps on the display
will light while you hold down the button. This is an intentional feature,
meant to allow you to check for any failed LEDs in the display.

==== When Calibration is Needed ====

The compass should be (re-)calibrated if any of the following apply:

o- at the time of initial installation

o- if any new equipment is installed in the vehicle in which the compass
   is mounted

o- if a substantial cargo is loaded into or removed from the vehicle

o- if the vehicle travels to a location which has a significantly different
   magnetic declination than the location where the last calibration was
   performed

o- if the position or orientation of the compass mounting is changed in
   any way

o- if the INTF indicator displays at any point (even if the interference
   source is found and removed, and the INTF indicator then disappears)

o- if the TILT indicator displays when the vehicle is on ground which is
   level or nearly so

o- if the compass firmware is re-flashed

o- if you know or suspect that the compass is not showing a correct heading

o- if it has been more than one year since the previous calibration

==== Final Warning ====

I can't emphasize enough: This is a building block and a tech demo, not
a serious navigational aid. Do not use this as your sole source of
direction finding on your next sea voyage or wilderness trek.
